In this video we'll learn how to create
classes in TypeScript.
So we'll start with this example here
using a Customer Class.
A customer can have a first name and last name
of TypeString.
And then we'll also learn how to create constructors
and also getter and setters.
So here's the basic structure of a class and TypeScript.
We use the class keyword and give the name of the class.
And then we can define the properties, the constructors,
and any getter and setter methods for this given class.
So that is the basic layout.
And then we can place this in a file called customer.ts.
Now actually the file name,
you can actually use any file name
as long as it ends with a .ts extension.
So we can actually place this customer class
in a customer file called mydemo.ts.
So again you can give any file name here.
But by convention I like to use the actual
name of the class.
But it is not a requirement.
You can use any name.
Okay so let's go ahead and define some properties for our
customer class.
So I have two properties.
Here I'll have the first name and last name of TypeString.
And the properties are public by default.
And so we'll actually cover access modifiers a little
bit later in this video.
But for right now we'll just keep the basics.
So now that I have my customer class defined,
let's go ahead and use it.
So I can create an instance of this class
by using the new keyword.
So I'll say let myCustomer = new Customer.
And now that it's created I can actually set some of the
properties here by saying myCustomer.firstName = "Martin";
lastName = "Dixon".
And then I can display the output accordingly.
And then I simply compile the code and run the code
and we'll see the output of Martin Dixon.
Alrighty so now let's look at creating a constructor for
our class.
So to create a constructor we make use of the
constructor keyword.
And then we pass in the params for the first and last
and then we simply assign them by saying
this.firstName = theFirst;
this.lastName = theLast.
And it's important that we must use this to refer to
properties defined in this class.
Alrighty so let's go ahead and update our example
to use our new constructor.
So here at the bottom I have let myCustomer = new Customer
I pass in the first and last name of Martin Dixon
and then I simply display the output.
And then a similar thing here
run our application and we see the same output Martin Dixon.
But in this example we're using our new constructor
that takes the first name and the last name.
Okay access modifiers,
now I promised this to you a little bit earlier.
So here we are.
So the first modifier public,
the property is accessible to all classes.
And this is the default modifier
so if you don't list anything then the actual property
will default to being public.
And then there's also protected,
meaning the property's only accessible in the current class
and subclasses.
And for private, the property is only accessible
in the current class.
All right so let's go ahead and mark
the properties as private.
So first name and last name they're now both private.
So now down in my coder I'll actually have some
compilation errors because I'm trying to access
private properties.
And the I-D-E will actually tell you this.
So it'll say hey property first name is private and
only accessible within the class customer.
All right so you'll have to be within that given class
of customer.
Now if I compile the code
then I'll see a similar error here.
So it says "Hey there's an error,
the property is private,
only accessible,
blah blah blah,
makes sense."
So we're trying to access this field that's private.
And it's marked as private in our code.
So this all makes sense.
We will expect this.
But now the part where it gets a little funny.
(laughter)
I say be careful so even though there are compilation
errors, the TypeScript compiler will still generate a
.js file!
Yikes!
So if I compile this code,
and then if I were to actually get a D-I-R
to look at the directory contents
then there is customer.js.
What??
So it actually generated a .js file,
But that doesn't make any sense.
If there was a compile error,
(laughter)
why would you even generate the file?
And it get's worse.
(laughter)
The code will still run.
So that generated code
it'll still run.
So look at that
when I say node Customer.js it'll print out Susan Public.
What's going on here?
So this little code snippet we create an instance
and we set our first name is Susan, last name is Public
and we displayed it and it runs.
Oh! Really!
So we can prevent this and I'll show you how.
So here the first thing we want to do is just kind of just
go from scratch here with Customer.js just to remove that
previous J-S file.
And we can compile using this new compiler flag
noEmitOnError.
So basically this flag says do not generate a .js file
if there is a compilation error.
So now when we do a D-I-R
we only have a Customer.ts file.
So the .js file was not generated.
So I like to say "Yaay!"
(laughter)
So you kind of have to micromanage
this TypeScript compiler.
Because if you let it do it's own thing,
you'll get some different results.
But no problems, now that we're aware of it
it shouldn't be a problem in the future.
Alrighty so let's go ahead and move into the next video.
And we'll move into our I-D-E
and we'll write the code
for our customer class and we'll test it out.
So I'll see ya in the next video!